# About Windows Powershell and Powershell Core
Windows PowerShell is an automation and configuration tool/framework that works well with your existing tools and is optimized for dealing with structured data (e.g. JSON, CSV, XML, etc.), REST APIs, and object models. It includes a command-line shell, an associated scripting language and a framework for processing cmdlets. The first version of PowerShell was released in November 2006 for Windows XP, Windows Server 2003 and Windows Vista. The latest version of PowerShell is Windows PowerShell 5.1, which is delivered as part of Windows 10 Anniversary Update and Windows Server 2016. It also can be installed and works on Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows 7 Service Pack 1 and Windows 8.1 (Pro and Enterprise editions). Windows Powershell is based on the .NET framework.

 Due to Powershell dependence on .Net Framework, Windows Powershell, up to the latest release 5.1, is limited to Windows platform. Considering a multitude of existing Operating Systems, especially in the Cloud environment, and understanding the limitations of Powershell, in 2018 Microsoft released new version, **Powershell Core**, which is based upon multiplatform **.Net Core** Framework. PowerShell Core is an [open source project](https://github.com/powershell/powershell), and it can be installed on Windows, macOS, and Linux platforms.

The cross-platform nature of PowerShell Core means that scripts that you write will run on any supported operating system. You can write PowerShell Core scripts on Windows, and use them on supported Mac OS X or Linux devices.

AWS embraced Powershell functionality early on as a set of tools complementary to AWS SDK, Command-Line Interface (CLI) and AWS Console to manage AWS resources. The AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell and AWS Tools for PowerShell Core are PowerShell modules that are built on the functionality exposed by the AWS SDK for .NET. The AWS PowerShell Tools enable you to script operations on your AWS resources from the PowerShell command line. Although the cmdlets are implemented using the service clients and methods from the SDK, the cmdlets provide an idiomatic PowerShell experience for specifying parameters and handling results. For example, the cmdlets for the Tools for Windows PowerShell support PowerShell pipelining — that is, you can pipeline PowerShell objects both into and out of the cmdlets.

The AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell and AWS Tools for PowerShell Core are flexible in how they enable you to handle credentials including support for the AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) infrastructure; you can use the tools with IAM user credentials, temporary security tokens, and IAM roles.

The AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell support the same set of services and regions as supported by the SDK.

The first version, **AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell 1.0.0.0**, was released in 2012. AWS continuously works on further improvements and extensions of the tool —  there were multiple releases of this tool since its inception. The latest release, **AWS Tools for PowerShell 3.3.343.0**, introduced **AWS Tools for Powershell Core**, which, besides traditional scripts, allows to build AWS Lambda functions.

In this Builder Session we will focus on AWS Tools for Powershell Core as this scripts can be executed from multiple platforms.